Final Incident Analysis Report  
  By using the resources provided, I was able to find some interesting things inside the logs for authentication, alerts, and audit. There are 3618 lines in total in the auth file. There are a total of 3768 lines in the alerts file. There are 76362 total words in the alert file. There are 2163835 total characters in the audit file. As I analyzed the logs for auth in the beginning, I found a constant session opening and closing from the user root which continued to happen for about 12 hours. After 12 hours, John, who I think could potentially be an admin, installed the audit. Within 23 minutes, John also removes the attacker from both group permissions of sudo and users. A few minutes in, the root user begins opening and closing the session for about 2 hours. When the time hits the stamp exactly 14:28:40, numerous failed password attempts happen in a row. However, the attacker failed to get in. I hypothesize that this is the same user who is the attacker trying to get in after being removed from the group permission of sudo and users. I hypothesize that this is a sign of a brute-force attack. Brute attacks are when an intruder just continues trying to guess the password until they manage to gain unauthorized access. I hypothesize this could be a brute force attack because I see that there are numerous attempts made in a row that were failed attempts by the attacker with the same IP address. There has not been a breach yet but I predict that there will likely be one later in the future if the attacker keeps going at this rate. There are 808 failed login attempts in total. A normal login would have easily gotten it right on the first try and gained access with no problems. If a user forgot their password, they would have clicked forgot your password option to message the administrator or system. The administrator or system would allow them to change their password after confirming their credentials. An intruder would not be able to do that since they do not own the user’s credentials which is why they are trying to break in from the start. The attacker may continue searching for weak passwords to obtain more credentials. Because if the attacker gets a hold of the user’s info or credentials, they can commit more crimes like identity theft, stealing their bank info, stealing their social, etc. I suspect this to be a brute-force attack. The initial action that the suspect attempts to do is to forcibly log in to multiple users. He kept at it until 15:09:09. Those multiple invalid users that could not log in are listed in the auth log as bob, test, guest, info, adm, mysql, user, administrator, oracle, ftp, pi, puppet, ansible, ec2-user, vagrant, and azureuser. Bob was used once. The test user was used 104 times. Guest was used 116 times. Info was used 111 times. Adm was used 100 times. Mysql was used 88 times. The user was used 292 times. The administrator was used 110 times. The oracle was used 108 times. The ftp was used 86 times. The pi was used 92 times. Puppet was used 94 times. Ansible was used 100 times. The ec2-user was used 96 times. Vagrant was used 88 times. Azureuser was used 133 times. The username that was seen as normal was John in the beginning. All the other users were either compromised or the attacker failed to break in. As I looked through the auth file, no one misentered the password. I know this because the same IP address was used to log in to those users. There are 11 successful login attempts. Between 3:18 pm and 3:19 pm, The attackers attempted to log in: test, mysql, ec2-user, and ftp but failed. The total number of unique port numbers that made login attempts from an invalid user is 694\. 15 of these ports were used more than once. After scanning through alerts, potential threats were detected for attempted information leaks. The categories of action are indicated by Suricata such as Applayer Detect protocol, SSH invalid banner, STREAM Packet with invalid ack, and STREAM FIN1 invalid ack. There were 842 Applayer Detect protocols. There were 1613 SSH invalid banners. There are 584 STREAM Packets with invalid ack. There were 584 STREAM FIN1 invalid ack. The files and folders contained in the audit log were concerning and confusing to look at. One of the concerning ones was key=”admin\_change”. The commands involved adding and deleting the user. I searched for them by using keywords such as added or deleted to find out who did these things. The attacker on the exploited admin account elevated their privileges using sudo. It is concerning that the attacker would delete admin from sudo.                                                                                                                   

  After all those failed attempts, the attacker attempts to hack John’s account through brute force. The attacker then attempted to log in to the admin John at 15:16:47. I know that this is the attacker from his IP address. The attacker’s IP address is 192.168.10.15. According to authentication, alerts, and audit logs, there have been many scans of attempted information leaks from this exact IP address. I hypothesize that the attacker will exploit this account to further their own goals in the future. Eventually, the attacker did manage to successfully break into John’s account at 15:17:07. This is the initial point of compromise since the attacker successfully gained unauthorized access to John’s account. Once the attacker successfully gains access to John’s user, the attacker proceeds to disconnect him from port 55584 then the attacker proceeds to repeat this process among many users. He breaks into Kathy and Bill’s user and then disconnects them from port 52238\. He breaks into James and Hank’s user and then proceeds to disconnect them from port 34388\. He goes back into Kathy and Bill users to remove them from port 50362\. I hypothesize the attackers take action to remove all the users from these ports within the network to cover their tracks. The reason I think this is because I noticed in the alerts log there would be a small gap between timestamps where ports were disconnected in the authentication log. The alert logs also show invalid. If the attacker keeps this up, it would be hard to track down his activity within the network. After doing all of this, he managed to break into the admin user at this exact timestamp 15:23:49. The attacker exploited the admin account to make a new user called Stephanie at this exact timestamp 15:25:07. The attacker took this exact action to open a backdoor in ssh for future use. The exploited admin gave Stephanie permission to group and shadow. The exploited admin changed the password to Stephanie. The exploited admin proceeds to disconnect the admin user from port 43932\. After logging out of the admin account, the attacker logs back in using the account created by the exploited admin. The attacker used the command sudo which did something to John’s account. I hypothesized that the sudo command can look into files located on the user directly. The attacker removes Stephanie from port 36412 and disconnects. Stephanie logs in and it shows another IP address. I suspect it to be the attacker still since the attacker is the one who created Stephanie, to begin with. Stephanie runs commands such as sudo. Stephanie went ahead and exposed the admin’s financial info using a set of commands. The attackers go ahead as Stephanie to search both John and the admin for more information using the sudo command. The attacker removes the admin from the group sudo and users. The attacker also removes admin permissions from the shadow group. After doing all of that, the attacker disconnects from port 44676\. The attacker had access to these accounts since 15:16:47. The activity does not end until 17:05:17 so the attacker had access for about an hour, 48 minutes, and 30 seconds. 

  After analyzing the log for authentication, alerts, and audit, I have concluded that the cloud service has been through a brute force attack. There have been numerous attempts made by an intruder with 192.168.10.15 as their IP address that attempted to open up port 22\. The attacker with 192.168.10.15 as their IP address had successfully taken over multiple users along with exploiting the admin account after numerous failed attempts. The attacker was able to leak out sensitive information which is the admin financial info. 

  Strong passwords are not enough to protect their accounts if an intruder can just forcefully break in. My recommendation that I propose against brute force attacks is to implement another security measure to protect their account from a similar incident in the future. Security measures or methods that I suggest for the short term would be multi-factor authentication. With multi-factor authentication, the users can add another step of security to their devices. Multi-factor authentication is where the system sends a code to the user’s email or text to confirm whether or not it is the authorized user. Only the authorized user can receive a code and not the attacker. Another method is to just change the password into something more complex that cannot be guessed easily. In the long term, they can change up the infrastructure so that it locks out the user after a fixed number of failed attempts until the right password is eventually placed in.

  After completing the analysis process, I have gained a lot of insight into how much technical work I will likely do in the future for my career. I will likely need to develop skills like analyzing logs and being able to identify threats in the future. I will also use the NIST framework as a guide for the future. This lesson has taught me a lot about brute-force attacks

References

Wickramasinghe, S. (2023, January 10). *Brute Force Attacks in 2023: Techniques, Types & Prevention*. Splunk-Blogs. [https://www.splunk.com/en\_us/blog/learn/brute-force-attacks.html](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/blog/learn/brute-force-attacks.html) 

Esheridan. (2023). *Blocking Brute Force Attacks | OWASP*. Owasp.org. https://owasp.org/www-community/controls/Blocking\_Brute\_Force\_Attacks

NetWrix Corporation. White Paper: The Business Case for Account Lockout Management. NetWrix Corporation, 2007\. [https://www.netwrix.com/download/WP\_-\_The\_Business\_Case\_for\_Account\_Lockout\_Management.pdf](https://www.netwrix.com/download/WP_-_The_Business_Case_for_Account_Lockout_Management.pdf)
